# deep retina
Deep retina is a project to build a convolutional neural network that can predict retinal ganglion cell responses to natural stimuli with high accuracy.

In only three layers of cells, the retina compresses the entire visual scene into the sparse responses of only a million output cells. While simple linear-nonlinear models of the vertebrate retina can approximate how the retina responds to spatiotemporal Gaussian white noise, there are no known models that provide a good description for the retina’s response to natural movies. Despite this, spiking responses are highly stereotyped. 

Here we will fit convolutional neural networks using Caffe to experimental data of the retina responding to spatiotemporal natural movies in order to create the best performing (albeit not biologically-inspired) model of the retina under natural conditions. An accurate model of the retina is essential for understanding the early computations that our visual system performs, which may lead to improvements in computer vision. The input data will consist of 100 Hz grayscale movies generated by taking a windowed random walk (simulating fixational eye movements) over natural images from the Tkacik et al. 2011 natural image database, with a new natural image drawn every 2s (simulating saccades). The labels will correspond to the binary spiking of retinal ganglion cells recorded with a multi-electrode array in Professor Stephen Baccus’ laboratory. Data pairs (X,y) will consist of X \in R^3, specifically 100 pixels x 100 pixels x 40 frames (where the choice of frames arises from the typical duration of 40ms for a retinal ganglion cell’s receptive field) and y \in {0,1}^n, where n is the number of neurons. To reflect the shared circuitry but differing cell types of the recorded ganglion cells, the CNN architecture will consist of 3d filters, a shared architecture for all neurons being predicted, and then separable layers for each type of ganglion cell being predicted. While there is no direct benchmark to compare performance on, state-of-the-art predictive models of neuronal responses during natural vision can explain 40% of neurons’ variance (Stephen David and Jack Gallant, 2005). In addition to variance explained, we will look at the prediction accuracy of the network.
